README.md, before:

# SAFE - A web stack designed for developer happiness

The following document describes the [SAFE-Stack](https://safe-stack.github.io/) sample project.
SAFE is a technology stack that brings together several technologies into a single, coherent stack for typesafe,
flexible end-to-end web-enabled applications that are written entirely in F#.

![SAFE-Stack](src/Client/images/safe_logo.png "SAFE-Stack")

You can see it running on Microsoft Azure at http://fable-suave.azurewebsites.net.

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ak9gjjjp32ens0e2?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/isaacabraham/safe-bookstore)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SAFE-Stack/SAFE-BookStore.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/SAFE-Stack/SAFE-BookStore)

## Requirements

- [Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/) on MacOS/Linux
- [.NET Framework 4.6.2](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/3151800/the--net-framework-4-6-2-offline-installer-for-windows) on Windows
- [node.js](https://nodejs.org/) - JavaScript runtime
- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) - Package manager for npm modules
- [dotnet SDK 2.1.3](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/release-notes/download-archives/2.0.4-download.md) The .NET Core SDK
- Other tools like [Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/) or [FAKE](https://fake.build/) will also be installed by the build script.
- For [deployment](#deployment) you need to have [docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed.

## Development mode

This development stack is designed to be used with minimal tooling. An instance of Visual Studio Code together with the excellent [Ionide](http://ionide.io/) plugin should be enough.

Start the development mode with:

    > build.cmd run // on windows
    $ ./build.sh run // on unix

This command will call the target "Run" in **build.fsx**. This will start in parallel:
- **dotnet fable webpack-dev-server** in [src/Client](src/Client) (note: the Webpack development server will serve files on http://localhost:8080)
- **dotnet watch msbuild /t:TestAndRun** in [test/serverTests](src/ServerTests) to run unit tests and then server (note: Suave is launched on port **8085**)

You can now edit files in `src/Server` or `src/Client` and recompile + browser refresh will be triggered automatically.
For the case of the client ["Hot Module Replacement"](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/hot-module-replacement/) is supported, which means your app state is kept over recompile.

![Development mode](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/57396/31067904-bec572e6-a755-11e7-967d-c169724006f2.gif)

Usually you can just keep this mode running and running. Just edit files, see the browser refreshing and commit + push with git.

## Getting started
### Create a new page
This topic will guide you through creating a new page. After every section you should check whether you can see the changes in your browser.
#### Minimal setup
Let's say we want to call our new page *Tomato*

1. Adjust the `src/Client/Pages.fs` and register our Tomato page as a page and define the corresponding hash value.

    ```fsharp
    type Page =
        | Home
        | Login
        | WishList
        | Tomato // <- our page

    let toHash =
        function
        | Home -> "#home"
        | Login -> "#login"
        | WishList -> "#wishlist"
        | Tomato -> "#tomato" // <- our page

    let pageParser : Parser<Page->_,_> =
        oneOf
            [ map Home (s "home")
              map Page.Login (s "login")
              map WishList (s "wishlist")
              map Page.Tomato (s "tomato") ] // <- our page
    ```

2. Adjust the `PageModel` type and the following functions inside the `src/Client/App.fs`:

    - `PageModel`
        ```fsharp
        type PageModel =
            //...
            | TomatoModel
        ```
    - urlUpdate function
        ```fsharp
        let urlUpdate (result:Page option) model =
            match result with
            //...
            | Some Page.Tomato ->
                { model with PageModel = TomatoModel }, []
        ```
    - viewPage function
        ```fsharp
        let viewPage model dispatch =
            match model.Page with
            //...
            | TomatoModel ->
                [ words 60 "Tomatoes taste good!"]
        ```
3. Try it out by navigating to `http://localhost:8080/#tomato`

You should see `Tomatoes taste good!`

#### Adding the page to the menu

Inside `src/Client/views/Menu.fs`:

```fsharp
let view (model:Model) dispatch =
    div [ centerStyle "row" ] [
        //...
        yield viewLink Page.Tomato "Tomato"
        //...
```

#### Move code to separate Tomato.fs files

1. Add a new .fs file to the pages folder: `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs`.
Add the `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs` to your .fsproj file and move it above `App.fs`.

        <Compile Include="pages/Tomato.fs" />
        <Compile Include="App.fs" />

2. Place following code in the `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs`:

    ```fsharp
    module Client.Tomato
    open Style
    let view() =
        [ words 60 "Tomatoes taste VERY good!"]
    ```

3. Remove old 'view' code from the `viewPage` function in `src/Client/App.fs` and replace it
    with:
    ```fsharp
    | TomatoModel ->
        Tomato.view()
    ```

#### Define a model for the page that holds the state

1. Replace the code in `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs` with

    ```fsharp
    module Client.Tomato
    open Style

    type Model = {
        Color:string
    }
    let init() =
        { Color = "red" }
    let view model =
        [
            words 60 "Tomatoes taste VERY good!"
            words 20 (sprintf "The color of a tomato is %s"  model.Color)
        ]
    ```

2. Adjust the `PageModel` DU

    ```fsharp
    type PageModel =
        | HomePageModel
        | LoginModel of Login.Model
        | WishListModel of WishList.Model
        | TomatoModel of Tomato.Model
    ```

3. `urlUpdate` should now call the `init` function and set `Tomato.Model` as the new `PageModel`
    ```fsharp
    | Some Page.Tomato ->
        let m = Tomato.init()
        { model with PageModel = TomatoModel m }, Cmd.none
    ```


4. The `viewPage` function should call the `view` function of the the Tomato module and pass in the page model if it is a `TomatoModel`
    ```fsharp
    | TomatoModel m ->
        Tomato.view m
    ```
#### Make it interactive (update the state)

1. Add a new message DU in `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs`
    ```fsharp
    type Msg =
        | ChangeColor of string
    ```

2. Add a message to the `Msg` DU in `src/Client/App.fs`
    ```fsharp
    type Msg =
        //...
        | TomatoMsg of Tomato.Msg
    ```

3. Adjust the match pattern in the `update` function of `src/Client/App.fs`
    ```fsharp
    | TomatoMsg msg, TomatoModel tm ->
        let color = match msg with Tomato.Msg.ChangeColor c -> c
        let tm = { tm with Color = color }
        { model with PageModel = TomatoModel tm }, Cmd.none

    | TomatoMsg msg, _ -> model, Cmd.none // in case we receive a delayed message originating from the previous page
    ```

4. Change the `Tomato.view` function (and add in required packages):

    ```fsharp
    
    open Fable.Helpers.React
    open Fable.Helpers.React.Props
    //...
    let view model dispatch =
        [
            words 60 "Tomatoes taste VERY good!"
            words 20 (sprintf "The color of a tomato is %s" model.Color)
            br []
            button [
                ClassName ("btn btn-primary")
                OnClick (fun _ -> dispatch (ChangeColor "green"))]
                [ str "No, my tomatoes are green!" ]
        ]
    ```

5. Edit `App.viewPage` and pass the `dispatch` function to `Tomato.view`, remapping `Tomato.Msg` onto `App.Msg`

    ```fsharp
    | TomatoModel m ->
       Tomato.view m (TomatoMsg >> dispatch)
    ```

## Debugging

The server side of the application can be debugged using Ionide.

1. Run `build.cmd` \ `build.sh` to restore everything properly
2. Open repo in VSCode
3. Open debug panel, choose `Debug` from combobox, and press green arrow (or `F5`). This will build server and start it with debugger attached. It will also start Fable watch mode for the Client side and open the browser.

Client side debugging is supported by any modern browser with any developer tools.
Fable even provides source maps which will let you put breakpoints in F# source code (in browser dev tools).
Also, we additionally suggest installing React-devtools (for better UI debugging) and Redux-devtools (time travel debugger).

## Technology stack

### Suave on .NET Core

The webserver backend is running as a [Suave.io](https://suave.io/) service on .NET Core.

In development mode the server is automatically restarted whenever a file in `src/Server` is saved.

### React/Elmish client

The client is [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) single page application that uses [fable-elmish](https://github.com/fable-compiler/fable-elmish).

The communication to the server is done via HTTPS calls to `/api/*`. If a user is logged in then a [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) is sent to the server with every request.

### Fable

The [Fable](http://fable.io/) compiler is used to compile the F# client code to JavaScript so that it can run in the browser.

### Shared code between server and client

"Isomorphic F#" started a bit as a joke about [Isomorphic JavaScript](http://isomorphic.net/). The naming is really bad, but the idea to have the same code running on client and server is really interesting.
If you look at `src/Server/Shared/Domain.fs` then you will see code that is shared between client and server. On the server it is compiled to .NET core and for the client the Fable compiler is translating it into JavaScript.
This is a really convenient technique for a shared domain model.

## Testing

Start the full build (incl. UI tests) with:

    > build.cmd // on windows
    $ ./build.sh // on unix

### Expecto

[Expecto](https://github.com/haf/expecto) is a test framework like NUnit or xUnit, but much more developer friendly. With Expecto you write tests as values in normal code.
Tests can be composed, reduced, filtered, repeated and passed as values, because they are values. This gives the programmer a lot of leverage when writing tests.

If you are in [development mode](#development-mode) then you can use Expecto's focused test feature to run a selected test against the running server.

### Canopy

[canopy](https://github.com/lefthandedgoat/canopy) is a F# web automation and testing library, built on top of Selenium. In our expecto suite it looks like the following:
```fsharp
testCase "login with test user" <| fun () ->
    url serverUrl
    waitForElement ".elmish-app"

    click "Login"

    "#username" << "test"
    "#password" << "test"

    click "Log In"

    waitForElement "Isaac Abraham"
```
![Canopy in action](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/57396/23131425/38d06e8c-f78a-11e6-9ebc-8442b0abf752.gif)

## Additional tools

### FAKE

[FAKE](http://fsharp.github.io/FAKE/) is a build automation system with capabilities which are similar to make and rake. It's used to automate the build, test and deployment process. Look into `build.fsx` for details.

### Paket

[Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/) is a dependency manager and allows easier management of the NuGet packages.

## Deployment

The deployment for this repo works via [docker](https://www.docker.com/) and therefore you need docker installed on your machine.

#### Docker Hub

Create a new [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com) account and a new public repository on Docker Hub.

#### Release script

Create a file called `release.cmd` with the following content and configure your DockerHub credentials:

    @echo off
    cls

    .paket\paket.exe restore
    if errorlevel 1 (
      exit /b %errorlevel%
    )

    packages\build\FAKE\tools\FAKE.exe build.fsx Deploy "DockerLoginServer=docker.io" "DockerImageName=****" "DockerUser=****" "DockerPassword=***" %*

Don't worry the file is already in `.gitignore` so your password will not be commited.

#### Initial docker push

In order to release a container you need to create a new entry in [RELEASE_NOTES.md] and run `release.cmd`.
This will build the server and client, run all test, put the app into a docker container and push it to your docker hub repro.

### Google Cloud AppEngine

The repository comes with a sample `app.yaml` file which is used to deploy to Google Cloud AppEngine using the custom flex environment. At the moment it seems like the application must run on port `8080` and that is set as a environment variable in the `app.yaml` file. When you run the deploy command it will first look for the `app.yaml` file and then look for the `Dockerfile` for what should deploy. The container that is deploy is exactly that same as the one that should have been deployed to Azure, but it is only set up to deploy from local to Google Cloud at the moment, and not from CI server to Google Cloud.

Before you can execute the deploy command you also need to build the solution with the `Publish` target, that is so the container image will get the compiled binaries when the container build is executed via the deploy command.

To execute the deploy you need a Google Cloud account and project configured as well as the tooling installed, https://cloud.google.com/sdk/downloads. The command you need to run is:

    gcloud app deploy -q <--version=main> <--verbosity=debug>

The `version` and `verbosity` flag isn't need, but it is recommended to use the `version` flag so you don't end up with too many versions of your application without removing previous ones. Use `verbosity=debug` if you are having some problems.

Deploy to the flex environment with a custom runtime like this is might take some time, but the instructions here should work.

## Known Issues

### Getting rid of errors in chrome

- Either comment out the lines in `App.fs`:

```fsharp
#if DEBUG
|> Program.withDebugger
#endif
```

- Or install the [Redux DevTools](http://extension.remotedev.io/) as a Chrome Extensions (recommended)
Only one error remains, when visiting the WebApp the first time.

### TypeProviders in the backend

Sadly, .NET Core 2.0 currently does not support Type Providers, so you can not just add the NuGet packages like FSharp.Data to your backend project.

### Additional Notes

- You can not call the functions of Fable inside the F# interactive.

## Maintainer(s)

- [@forki](https://github.com/forki)
- [@alfonsogarciacaro](https://github.com/alfonsogarciacaro)

Commit message:

Update by pointing to the commit

README.md, after:

# SAFE - A web stack designed for developer happiness

This is a clone of the above, showcasing how RabbitMQ can be used with Hopac as a message
bus, for idempotent publishes from a Suave web API.

This commit is where this sample gets interesting:

https://github.com/haf/rmq-publisher-confirms-hopac/commit/486839bc0c7e8f6099d0b2a5df08a0e31d7b364a

---

The following document describes the [SAFE-Stack](https://safe-stack.github.io/) sample project.
SAFE is a technology stack that brings together several technologies into a single, coherent stack for typesafe,
flexible end-to-end web-enabled applications that are written entirely in F#.

![SAFE-Stack](src/Client/images/safe_logo.png "SAFE-Stack")

You can see it running on Microsoft Azure at http://fable-suave.azurewebsites.net.

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ak9gjjjp32ens0e2?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/isaacabraham/safe-bookstore)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SAFE-Stack/SAFE-BookStore.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/SAFE-Stack/SAFE-BookStore)

## Requirements

- [Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/) on MacOS/Linux
- [.NET Framework 4.6.2](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/3151800/the--net-framework-4-6-2-offline-installer-for-windows) on Windows
- [node.js](https://nodejs.org/) - JavaScript runtime
- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) - Package manager for npm modules
- [dotnet SDK 2.1.3](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/release-notes/download-archives/2.0.4-download.md) The .NET Core SDK
- Other tools like [Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/) or [FAKE](https://fake.build/) will also be installed by the build script.
- For [deployment](#deployment) you need to have [docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed.

## Development mode

This development stack is designed to be used with minimal tooling. An instance of Visual Studio Code together with the excellent [Ionide](http://ionide.io/) plugin should be enough.

Start the development mode with:

    > build.cmd run // on windows
    $ ./build.sh run // on unix

This command will call the target "Run" in **build.fsx**. This will start in parallel:
- **dotnet fable webpack-dev-server** in [src/Client](src/Client) (note: the Webpack development server will serve files on http://localhost:8080)
- **dotnet watch msbuild /t:TestAndRun** in [test/serverTests](src/ServerTests) to run unit tests and then server (note: Suave is launched on port **8085**)

You can now edit files in `src/Server` or `src/Client` and recompile + browser refresh will be triggered automatically.
For the case of the client ["Hot Module Replacement"](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/hot-module-replacement/) is supported, which means your app state is kept over recompile.

![Development mode](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/57396/31067904-bec572e6-a755-11e7-967d-c169724006f2.gif)

Usually you can just keep this mode running and running. Just edit files, see the browser refreshing and commit + push with git.

## Getting started
### Create a new page
This topic will guide you through creating a new page. After every section you should check whether you can see the changes in your browser.
#### Minimal setup
Let's say we want to call our new page *Tomato*

1. Adjust the `src/Client/Pages.fs` and register our Tomato page as a page and define the corresponding hash value.

    ```fsharp
    type Page =
        | Home
        | Login
        | WishList
        | Tomato // <- our page

    let toHash =
        function
        | Home -> "#home"
        | Login -> "#login"
        | WishList -> "#wishlist"
        | Tomato -> "#tomato" // <- our page

    let pageParser : Parser<Page->_,_> =
        oneOf
            [ map Home (s "home")
              map Page.Login (s "login")
              map WishList (s "wishlist")
              map Page.Tomato (s "tomato") ] // <- our page
    ```

2. Adjust the `PageModel` type and the following functions inside the `src/Client/App.fs`:

    - `PageModel`
        ```fsharp
        type PageModel =
            //...
            | TomatoModel
        ```
    - urlUpdate function
        ```fsharp
        let urlUpdate (result:Page option) model =
            match result with
            //...
            | Some Page.Tomato ->
                { model with PageModel = TomatoModel }, []
        ```
    - viewPage function
        ```fsharp
        let viewPage model dispatch =
            match model.Page with
            //...
            | TomatoModel ->
                [ words 60 "Tomatoes taste good!"]
        ```
3. Try it out by navigating to `http://localhost:8080/#tomato`

You should see `Tomatoes taste good!`

#### Adding the page to the menu

Inside `src/Client/views/Menu.fs`:

```fsharp
let view (model:Model) dispatch =
    div [ centerStyle "row" ] [
        //...
        yield viewLink Page.Tomato "Tomato"
        //...
```

#### Move code to separate Tomato.fs files

1. Add a new .fs file to the pages folder: `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs`.
Add the `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs` to your .fsproj file and move it above `App.fs`.

        <Compile Include="pages/Tomato.fs" />
        <Compile Include="App.fs" />

2. Place following code in the `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs`:

    ```fsharp
    module Client.Tomato
    open Style
    let view() =
        [ words 60 "Tomatoes taste VERY good!"]
    ```

3. Remove old 'view' code from the `viewPage` function in `src/Client/App.fs` and replace it
    with:
    ```fsharp
    | TomatoModel ->
        Tomato.view()
    ```

#### Define a model for the page that holds the state

1. Replace the code in `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs` with

    ```fsharp
    module Client.Tomato
    open Style

    type Model = {
        Color:string
    }
    let init() =
        { Color = "red" }
    let view model =
        [
            words 60 "Tomatoes taste VERY good!"
            words 20 (sprintf "The color of a tomato is %s"  model.Color)
        ]
    ```

2. Adjust the `PageModel` DU

    ```fsharp
    type PageModel =
        | HomePageModel
        | LoginModel of Login.Model
        | WishListModel of WishList.Model
        | TomatoModel of Tomato.Model
    ```

3. `urlUpdate` should now call the `init` function and set `Tomato.Model` as the new `PageModel`
    ```fsharp
    | Some Page.Tomato ->
        let m = Tomato.init()
        { model with PageModel = TomatoModel m }, Cmd.none
    ```


4. The `viewPage` function should call the `view` function of the the Tomato module and pass in the page model if it is a `TomatoModel`
    ```fsharp
    | TomatoModel m ->
        Tomato.view m
    ```
#### Make it interactive (update the state)

1. Add a new message DU in `src/Client/pages/Tomato.fs`
    ```fsharp
    type Msg =
        | ChangeColor of string
    ```

2. Add a message to the `Msg` DU in `src/Client/App.fs`
    ```fsharp
    type Msg =
        //...
        | TomatoMsg of Tomato.Msg
    ```

3. Adjust the match pattern in the `update` function of `src/Client/App.fs`
    ```fsharp
    | TomatoMsg msg, TomatoModel tm ->
        let color = match msg with Tomato.Msg.ChangeColor c -> c
        let tm = { tm with Color = color }
        { model with PageModel = TomatoModel tm }, Cmd.none

    | TomatoMsg msg, _ -> model, Cmd.none // in case we receive a delayed message originating from the previous page
    ```

4. Change the `Tomato.view` function (and add in required packages):

    ```fsharp
    
    open Fable.Helpers.React
    open Fable.Helpers.React.Props
    //...
    let view model dispatch =
        [
            words 60 "Tomatoes taste VERY good!"
            words 20 (sprintf "The color of a tomato is %s" model.Color)
            br []
            button [
                ClassName ("btn btn-primary")
                OnClick (fun _ -> dispatch (ChangeColor "green"))]
                [ str "No, my tomatoes are green!" ]
        ]
    ```

5. Edit `App.viewPage` and pass the `dispatch` function to `Tomato.view`, remapping `Tomato.Msg` onto `App.Msg`

    ```fsharp
    | TomatoModel m ->
       Tomato.view m (TomatoMsg >> dispatch)
    ```

## Debugging

The server side of the application can be debugged using Ionide.

1. Run `build.cmd` \ `build.sh` to restore everything properly
2. Open repo in VSCode
3. Open debug panel, choose `Debug` from combobox, and press green arrow (or `F5`). This will build server and start it with debugger attached. It will also start Fable watch mode for the Client side and open the browser.

Client side debugging is supported by any modern browser with any developer tools.
Fable even provides source maps which will let you put breakpoints in F# source code (in browser dev tools).
Also, we additionally suggest installing React-devtools (for better UI debugging) and Redux-devtools (time travel debugger).

## Technology stack

### Suave on .NET Core

The webserver backend is running as a [Suave.io](https://suave.io/) service on .NET Core.

In development mode the server is automatically restarted whenever a file in `src/Server` is saved.

### React/Elmish client

The client is [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) single page application that uses [fable-elmish](https://github.com/fable-compiler/fable-elmish).

The communication to the server is done via HTTPS calls to `/api/*`. If a user is logged in then a [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) is sent to the server with every request.

### Fable

The [Fable](http://fable.io/) compiler is used to compile the F# client code to JavaScript so that it can run in the browser.

### Shared code between server and client

"Isomorphic F#" started a bit as a joke about [Isomorphic JavaScript](http://isomorphic.net/). The naming is really bad, but the idea to have the same code running on client and server is really interesting.
If you look at `src/Server/Shared/Domain.fs` then you will see code that is shared between client and server. On the server it is compiled to .NET core and for the client the Fable compiler is translating it into JavaScript.
This is a really convenient technique for a shared domain model.

## Testing

Start the full build (incl. UI tests) with:

    > build.cmd // on windows
    $ ./build.sh // on unix

### Expecto

[Expecto](https://github.com/haf/expecto) is a test framework like NUnit or xUnit, but much more developer friendly. With Expecto you write tests as values in normal code.
Tests can be composed, reduced, filtered, repeated and passed as values, because they are values. This gives the programmer a lot of leverage when writing tests.

If you are in [development mode](#development-mode) then you can use Expecto's focused test feature to run a selected test against the running server.

### Canopy

[canopy](https://github.com/lefthandedgoat/canopy) is a F# web automation and testing library, built on top of Selenium. In our expecto suite it looks like the following:
```fsharp
testCase "login with test user" <| fun () ->
    url serverUrl
    waitForElement ".elmish-app"

    click "Login"

    "#username" << "test"
    "#password" << "test"

    click "Log In"

    waitForElement "Isaac Abraham"
```
![Canopy in action](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/57396/23131425/38d06e8c-f78a-11e6-9ebc-8442b0abf752.gif)

## Additional tools

### FAKE

[FAKE](http://fsharp.github.io/FAKE/) is a build automation system with capabilities which are similar to make and rake. It's used to automate the build, test and deployment process. Look into `build.fsx` for details.

### Paket

[Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/) is a dependency manager and allows easier management of the NuGet packages.

## Deployment

The deployment for this repo works via [docker](https://www.docker.com/) and therefore you need docker installed on your machine.

#### Docker Hub

Create a new [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com) account and a new public repository on Docker Hub.

#### Release script

Create a file called `release.cmd` with the following content and configure your DockerHub credentials:

    @echo off
    cls

    .paket\paket.exe restore
    if errorlevel 1 (
      exit /b %errorlevel%
    )

    packages\build\FAKE\tools\FAKE.exe build.fsx Deploy "DockerLoginServer=docker.io" "DockerImageName=****" "DockerUser=****" "DockerPassword=***" %*

Don't worry the file is already in `.gitignore` so your password will not be commited.

#### Initial docker push

In order to release a container you need to create a new entry in [RELEASE_NOTES.md] and run `release.cmd`.
This will build the server and client, run all test, put the app into a docker container and push it to your docker hub repro.

### Google Cloud AppEngine

The repository comes with a sample `app.yaml` file which is used to deploy to Google Cloud AppEngine using the custom flex environment. At the moment it seems like the application must run on port `8080` and that is set as a environment variable in the `app.yaml` file. When you run the deploy command it will first look for the `app.yaml` file and then look for the `Dockerfile` for what should deploy. The container that is deploy is exactly that same as the one that should have been deployed to Azure, but it is only set up to deploy from local to Google Cloud at the moment, and not from CI server to Google Cloud.

Before you can execute the deploy command you also need to build the solution with the `Publish` target, that is so the container image will get the compiled binaries when the container build is executed via the deploy command.

To execute the deploy you need a Google Cloud account and project configured as well as the tooling installed, https://cloud.google.com/sdk/downloads. The command you need to run is:

    gcloud app deploy -q <--version=main> <--verbosity=debug>

The `version` and `verbosity` flag isn't need, but it is recommended to use the `version` flag so you don't end up with too many versions of your application without removing previous ones. Use `verbosity=debug` if you are having some problems.

Deploy to the flex environment with a custom runtime like this is might take some time, but the instructions here should work.

## Known Issues

### Getting rid of errors in chrome

- Either comment out the lines in `App.fs`:

```fsharp
#if DEBUG
|> Program.withDebugger
#endif
```

- Or install the [Redux DevTools](http://extension.remotedev.io/) as a Chrome Extensions (recommended)
Only one error remains, when visiting the WebApp the first time.

### TypeProviders in the backend

Sadly, .NET Core 2.0 currently does not support Type Providers, so you can not just add the NuGet packages like FSharp.Data to your backend project.

### Additional Notes

- You can not call the functions of Fable inside the F# interactive.

## Maintainer(s)

- [@forki](https://github.com/forki)
- [@alfonsogarciacaro](https://github.com/alfonsogarciacaro)
